1. Weaknesses of the Session Identifier
2. Session Hijacking
3. Session Fixation
4. Cross-site Request Forgeries
***
1. Weaknesses of the Session Identifier
- session identifier is the unique key that identifies a user session within a database of sessions.
- A strong session identifier is an ID that is:
	- Valid for only a single session, Time Limited, Purely random (thus unpredictable)
- It is also very important to not store session tokes in:
	- URL : leaked to external sites though the referrer header and in the user browser history
	- HTML : cached in the browser or intermediate proxies
	- HTML5 Web Storage (Localstorage, Sessionstorage) 
		- Localstorage : will last until it is explicitly deleted, so this may make session last too long.
		- Sessionstorage: is only destroyed when the browser is closed. There may be users that will not close their browser in a long time.
***
2. Session Hijacking
- Session Hijacking refers to the exploitation of a valid session assigned to a user.
- session IDs are typically carried back and forth between client web browser and server by using: Cookies or URLs
- A Session Hijack attack can happen by :
	- Exploiting an existing XSS
	- Packet sniffing : must LAN, No SSL
	- Gaining direct access to server filesystem where sessions are stored
	- Finding session IDs in logs or browser history (sessions carried through the URL)
- Preventing Session Hijacking
	- HttpOnly flag enabled `ini_set('session.cookie_httponly','1');`, php
	- `String sessionid =request.getSession().getId(); response.setHeader("SET-COOKIE", "JSESSIONID=" + sessionid + "; HttpOnly");` java
	- By default, starting from .NET 2.0, the framework sets the HttpOnly attribute for both : (SessionIDs and Forms Authentication cookie)
- Stored Session in server 
	- Session data will be stored within the folder specified by the php.ini,entry session.save_path. The attacker will focus on files named sess_. `sess_ta9i1kqska407387itjfl57624`, PHP
- Tomcat provides two standard implementations of a Session Manager 
	- The file name of the default session data file is SESSIONS.ser, JAVA
- ASP.NET can store session data in three different locations:
	- ASP.NET runtime process aspnet_wp.exe : If the web server crashes then all session data will be lost
	- A dedicated Windows Service : f the web server crashes then session data will persist but if the machine crashes then the session data will be lost.
	- Microsoft® SQL Server™ database : Session data will persist regardless of crashes.
	- Unlike PHP technology, .NET session data cannot be read directly from files on web servers
***
3. Session Fixation
- Session fixation is a session hijacking attack where, as the name suggests
- Two phases:
	- The attacker obtains a valid sessionID
	- The attacker forces the victim to use this sessionID to establish a personal session with web serve
- the attacker is not interested in stealing the sessionID; he instead creates one and forces the victim to use it.
- Ex : `http://sessionfixation.site/login.php?SID=300`
- Prevent Session Fixation
- Generate a new sessionID after any authenticated operation is performed
	- session_regenerate_id(true); PHP
	- oldHttpSession=HttpServletRequest.getSession(); JAVA
	- HttpSessionState.Abandon() .NET
	`Session.Abandon(); Response.Cookies.Add(new HttpCookie("ASP.NET_SessionId", ""));`
***
4. Cross-site Request Forgeries
- CSRF or XSRF attacks
- Tokens and Captchas are the most commonly used protection mechanisms.
- Transformation GET -> POST :
	```
	<iframe style="width: 0px; height: 0px, visibility: hidden" name "hidden">		  </iframe> </form> <script> document.csrf.submit();<script>
	```
- This script takes a URL as input with additional parameters. These parameters will be sent to it as a GET.
- `[shiflett.org](http://shiflett.org/csrf.php?csrf=[CGI]?[ARGUMENTS])`
***